Well, what if the GitHub API changes?
So, I'm curious what your thoughts
on something like that would be.
>> Right, so this is where end-to-end
tests come into play, right?
So with unit tests, you wanna verify
that what you're doing is correct.
With end-to-end tests, you're saying, I
wanna make sure that all of the pieces in
the system, which may include GitHub,
come into play.
And you can have two different
kinds of end-to-end tests, right?
You can have an end-to-end test
where GitHub is actually involved,
where you're actually verifying that
it works all the way through GitHub.
Or you can have an end-to-end test where
GitHub is mocked out, where you're
assuming that you are correctly mocking
out how GitHub works on your side,
and do it.
And both of them have value, right?
One is verifying that the API
hasn't changed with GitHub.
Now, GitHub has their APIs versioned and
there's other discussions to be had
around like why that's a good idea.
And on your side you have a choice
to do one way or the other, and
both of these tests are useful and
they test different things.
>> How are the testing objects
shared with the spec files
existing in the routes directory?
>> So, I like to put the spec files
right next to the test that you have.
There is a small risk that you
accidentally include your test code in
production.
My argument towards that would be like,
make sure your bundling system
has a glob that says,
do not include anything that has spec.ts.
That should be pretty safe.
I like it because it's right
next to each other, and so
it's easy to correlate the files together.
In the past, I have been in projects where
we put the test in a separate folder.
Because they're just far away,
it becomes kinda complicated to manage it.
So I personally like when they're
right next to each other.
>> Would you create another test
with the actual correct repo and
correct username to make
sure it builds correctly?
This is a generic test,
but would you ever create something
that's very specific to your project?
>> So, it depends where you
are in the stack, right?
For an end-to-end test,
because we're mocking everything out,
it doesn't really matter what you choose.
But if you wanted to actually
go against the real repo,
it's more of an end-to-end test.
And you might wanna choose to have
a couple of smoke tests like that in that
category.
You probably don't wanna put
them with your unit test,
because they might run slower,
they might be flaky, etc.
You probably wanna run them in a separate
command, with a separate build,
etc, that maybe they only run as part of
your CI build or something of that sort.
But both of those things are useful,
right?
Each one of these test a different thing.
Now, I really wanna stress out this
angle of documentation, right?
So look at this test, and
let's just think about,
what can we do to make the test
easier to read, right?
Typically, you just wanna pull things out
so that you end up with something that
reads easily for the user,
because you wanna be able for
the next person to come in here and
easily understand what's going on, right?
So typically we have some form of a setup,
and
the setup is something that we can pull to
a common location that might be useful.
And I think as we are going to go
through multiple different tests,
we're gonna see that the same
setup occurs over and over again.
We will go and
refactor it to a common location.
Then there is usually the stimulus, the
actual piece of work that you do, right?
The thing that you're testing,
right, the thing on the test, sorry,
that goes all over here.
Sorry, let me back up a second.
The setup is all the way up to here,
right?
Because setting up an API with
a mock is part of the setup.
So this is a setup portion,
then there is a stimulus portion, right?
The actual work,
the thing that I'm testing, right?
And finally,
I have a whole bunch of expects.
And these expects come in either in
the form of just a plain expect,
like expect fetch mark to have
been called with whatever, or
they come in a form of replaying
the other side, right?
So i'm kind of straddling
both sides of the test.
Like, I can expect things from the front,
but in the back,
I can go and pretend that stuff
happened using the mocks.
And that's how I sandwich my test and
do whatever I need into it, and
finally I expect the response.
The other thing I wanna point out is that,
as much as you can, you really
wanna get away with these simple
responses, or the simplified objects.
Because it tells the reader
that it doesn't matter.
Like, you're simplifying the mental model
for them, because you're saying, look,
there's some response that's gonna come
in and it's gonna show up over here.
The actual details don't matter, right?
If I was actually going to make
a real humongous object, like,
I could grab the object from the snapshot,
right?
I could say,
this thing here is my response.
But it would make the test a lot more
complicated for the user to kind of follow
along because then they don't know, is it
something that matters to the test or not?
So you really wanna simplify this and you
really wanna break your test into these
three phase, the setup phase, the stimulus
phase, and the expectations phase.
And every test should follow
this particular pattern overall.